README.md, before:

# [Varun's Portfolio, Work and Opinions.](https://varunest.com) [![travis][travis-image]][travis-url]

Copyright (c) Varun Verma

Hi, I'm Varun and this is the source code for my blog, [https://varunest.com](https://varunest.com). Feel free to browse the source and [ask me questions](https://twitter.com/varunest).

## Blog design

If you fork this, **please create your own blog design**. Don't use mine! I don't want to see fifty other blogs that look the same as mine. Thanks for understanding!

## How it's built

All my posts are written in Markdown. The blog is powered by [Jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll), a static site generator that takes Markdown blog posts and converts them into HTML files. The benefit of this approach are many:

- The blog can be served with almost any web server, since the output of Jekyll is just flat HTML files.
- The whole blog can easily be version controlled.
- The blog requires less maintainance (goodbye out-of-date Wordpress installations!)

I also wrote a simple Node.js/MySQL app to track the number of page views on each blog post. It's pretty straightforward.

I host the actual site on my own server, since I have a Jekyll plugin (and GitHub Pages doesn't support Jekyll plugins). Also, GitHub isn't going to run that Node.js app for me. Also, I like being in control of my website hosting (seriously, being a [sharecropper](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2003/07/12/WebsThePlace) sucks).

## Run it

### Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
npm run install-system-deps # macOS only
```

### Build site

```bash
npm run build
```

### Start server

```bash
npm start
```

### Start development server

```bash
npm run watch
```

### Run tests

```bash
npm test
```

### Publish site

```bash
npm run publish
```

On the server, I serve the generated files with `nginx` and run the Node.js app using `Supervisord` (to restart the app if it crashes).

That's pretty much it.

# License

Copyright (c) [Varun Verma](https://varunest.com/)

Commit message:

First Blog Post
- Rework UI
- Analytics
- Setup Travis CI
- Update README.md

README.md, after:

# [Varun's Portfolio, Work and Opinions.](https://varunest.com) [![travis][travis-image]][travis-url]
[travis-image]: https://img.shields.io/travis/varunest/varunest.com/master.svg?style=flat
[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/varunest/varunest.com

Copyright (c) Varun Verma

Hi, I'm Varun and this is the source code for my blog, [https://varunest.com](https://varunest.com). Feel free to browse the source and [ask me questions](https://twitter.com/varunest).

## Run it

### Install dependencies
Please note that on Mojave `install-system-deps` will fail if you havn't install Ruby using HomeBrew. Follow [this](https://desiredpersona.com/install-jekyll-on-macos/) guide to install Jekyll before running following commands.

```bash
npm install
npm run install-system-deps # macOS only
```

### Build site

```bash
npm run build
```

### Start server

```bash
npm start
```

### Start development server

```bash
npm run watch
```

### Run tests

```bash
npm test
```

### Publish site

```bash
npm run publish
```

On the server, I serve the generated files with `nginx` and run the Node.js app using `Supervisord` (to restart the app if it crashes).

That's pretty much it.

# License

Copyright (c) [Varun Verma](https://varunest.com/)
